Hamas has said it would be open to
extending the ceasefire with Israel
Beyond Today its fourth and final day
the group which is regarded as a
terrorist organization by the UK and
other governments yesterday freed more
hostages who'd been held in Gaza
including 14 Israelis in exchange for
Palestinian prisoners President Biden
has said he wants to keep the deal going
Beyond today so that all captives can be
brought home and more Aid be sent to
Gaza from Jerusalem our Middle East
correspondent Hugo B
reports free again 14 Israeli hostages
released by Hamas head home after their
long or deal along with three foreign
Nationals among them were 15-year-old
dafina and Ella ilim eight who were
finally reunited with their mom Chen
Golding almog who was released along
with her three children and RI KY
released 51 days after being kidnapped
from a festival where he was working as
sound
crew he followed a weekend of happy
reunions aigel Aidan spent her fourth
birthday in captivity the Israeli
American was taken on October the 7th
after Hamas attacked and killed both of
her parents her family have spoken of
their relief at finally being
reunited it was wow couldn't believe
until I saw her I simply couldn't
believe it now I'm a bit more relieved
not relieved completely because there's
happiness mixed with missing Roy and
had and there was celebrations in the
occupied West Bank 2 39 Palestinian
prisoners in their teens were released
by Israel in exchange for the hostages
the green flag of Hamas seemed flying
among the
crowds very happy thank God for this joy
and we hope that all prisoners will be
released God willing relief for all
prisoners today marks the final day of
the temporary ceasefire deal between
Hamas and Israel so far 54 hostages and
117 Palestinian prisoners have been
freed and much needed Aid has been sent
into Gaza now attention turns to whether
this fragile truce could be
extended Hamas says he wants to see an
extension of the current pausing
fighting in Gaza this could increase the
number of hostages being freed President
Biden said the hostage release was the
result of intensive us diplomacy his
administration he said will be working
to extend the deal more is needed but
this deal is delivering life-saving
results critically needed Aid is going
in and hostages are coming out and this
still is structured so that it can be
extended to keep building on these
results that's my goal that's our goal
the Israeli Prime Minister reaffirmed
his determination to continue the
fighting once the temporary ceasefire
ends with about 180 people is still in
captivity in Gaza the painful weight of
their families
continues Dr Benjamin rad is a senior
fellow at the UCLA Burl Center for
international relations he gave us his
thought on the possibility of an
extension to the current truce I think
the public pressure within the Israeli
Society has come to uh show the
government show Netanyahu that the
primary desire of the Israeli public is
the release of the hostages before the
even the the the destruction or the
dismantling of hamas's fighting um
infrastructure and so that public
pressure has come to Bear very strongly
so we now see efforts by the government
not only to maintain the truce in the
agreement but also to offer a possible
extension of it in the days to come so
it seems very likely Israel has two
objectives number one one to return all
the hostages and number two to prevent
any hostage taking or attacks in the
future obviously the second goal cannot
be met until the first one is first
satisfied to make sure that those
hostages return but it is it remains a
primary objective of the government to
make sure that this cannot be repeated
which is why Netanyahu has reaffirmed
his um his position that the attacks or
the operation against Hamas will
continue as soon as the hostages have
all been released well with me now is
Muhammad from BBC Arabic Muhammad
welcome to you good to see you and what
else are you hearing about a possible
extension to this truce which we
understand Hamas is looking to extend uh
good morning Samantha yes indeed it's
more likely that this truce would be
extended all parties are happy that this
Truth uh would be extended uh Hamas
announced that the katar side and
President Biden said yesterday that he's
welcoming that and there are efforts
towards that bamin netan said he would
be happy to do that as uh as um in
exchange of each day of the truce 10
hostages would be release so it's more
likely that this troops would be
extended the people in Gaza are really
in dire need for for Aid they are
getting this Aid uh uh gradually but
they are in dire need for for fuel there
there is uh there are very little fuel
is going to uh Northern Gaza and this is
really uh needed uh for the for the you
know for the uh for the cars to work for
the rubbish to be cleared for the roads
to be opened for the communications to
be restored for every uh aspects of life
to be return back even the sewage there
is a sewage massive sewage problem that
the because of the motors are not
working the the sewage
water is everywhere so the fuel is
really needed the medical supply
is really needed for the hospital to
reopen the Indonesian Hospital in
Northern Gaza is partially out of
service to they want this hospital to
return back to work the hospitals in the
city of Gaza as well in a bad need to
work so all parties whether the
Americans the the the kataris the
Israelis and the Palestinians including
Hamas are really Keen for this truths to
be extended for all this offer to put
together uh towards a permanent uh
ceasefire maybe and what do we
understand about those people who are
returning home we saw hundreds of
thousands of garans move South as they
were told to do by the Israelis to try
and keep safe there are returning to the
North many of them in some cases they
don't have a home to return to what do
we understand about what could happen if
this truce isn't extended will they have
to return back south into temporary
accommodation uh actually we would see
what is the reaction uh would be but the
people of Gaza I saw pictures this
morning for Gaza for the markets of Gaza
people are acting as if the war is over
so the markets are open they are uh
buying their their stuff they are trying
to put fuel in their cars but where are
they getting things from to to sell H
part part of that is the the aid that's
coming to Gaza but this is really
question a good question question to ask
I I saw with my eyes markets are full
with vegetables fruits and other other
Goods in Gaza people are now the Israeli
forces stopped from from stopping people
from going north so they are returning
back uh to their destroyed homes to
collect their winter stuff from the
rubbles I saw a man with with a hammer
trying to get to a collapsing bedroom to
get some some clothes from from the the
collapsed bedroom he's using he's using
the the the wood of the cupboard to for
for fire afterwards but I want to say
something if you may may allow me
Samantha about about the the scenes of
exch exchange hostages as this is turned
to be a media war between Hamas and the
Palestinians we can see that the
Israelis are really Keen for for a
lowkey media appearance for the hostages
they are also Keen to to make the
Palestinians not celebrate so much uh
their their free ones especially in
Jerusalem there are there are TR Israeli
troops around their homes they are
telling them not to celebrate that
invited the neighbors to make
congratulations through balconies and
and and and and and windows on the
contrary we can see the Hamas when they
are freeing the hostages there is that
friendly bond between the hostages and
the Hamas fighters to the extent that
the social media in the world Arab world
is exploding of of humor about this and
also uh
and also the massive celebrations on the
West Bank regarding the freed prisoners
okay Muhammad thank you